<details>
  <summary>Linux install instructions (click to expand)</summary>

  # Installing dependencies
  This project uses a C game development library and that means quite a bit of libraries are needed on Linux. Below I have the commands to install dependencies for a few common Linux
  distributions.

  Ubuntu:
  ```
  sudo apt install libasound2-dev mesa-common-dev libx11-dev libxrandr-dev libxi-dev xorg-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
  ```
  Fedora:
  ```
  sudo dnf install alsa-lib-devel mesa-libGL-devel libX11-devel libXrandr-devel libXi-devel libXcursor-devel libXinerama-devel libatomic
  ```
  Arch Linux:
  ```
  sudo pacman -S alsa-lib mesa libx11 libxrandr libxi libxcursor libxinerama
  ```

  # Installing Nim compiler and its package manager
  Run the following command in a terminal. It will download Nim to ~/.nimble/ and export the path where Nim binaries are. (Edit the command if you want to add Nim to the PATH variable yourself.)
  ```
  curl https://nim-lang.org/choosenim/init.sh -sSf | sh; echo 'export PATH=~/.nimble/bin:$PATH' > .profile 
  ```

  # Downloading the project
  Restart the terminal to make sure PATH has been updated. Then run this command to prepare the Nim environment and download the project:
  ```
  choosenim devel; nimble refresh; git clone https://github.com/Cloudperry/the-witness-puzzle-maker; cd the-witness-puzzle-maker
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Broken Mac OS install instructions (might work on some Mac OS versions, but didn't work for me)</summary>

  # Installing dependencies (Mac OS)
  Nim uses a C compiler. If you don't have one installed run the following command in a terminal to install Clang on Mac OS.
  ```
  xcode-select --install
  ```

  # Installing Nim compiler and its package manager
  Run the following command in a terminal. It will download Nim to ~/.nimble/ and export the path where Nim binaries are. (Edit the command if you want to add Nim to the PATH variable yourself.)
  ```
  curl https://nim-lang.org/choosenim/init.sh -sSf | sh; echo 'export PATH=~/.nimble/bin:$PATH' > .profile 
  ```

  # Downloading the project
  Restart the terminal to make sure PATH has been updated. Then run this command to prepare the Nim environment and download the project:
  ```
  choosenim devel; nimble refresh; git clone https://github.com/Cloudperry/the-witness-puzzle-maker; cd the-witness-puzzle-maker
  ```

  Run this command to compile the project. It will take about 5 min, because it has to download some libraries and generate bindings for one of the libraries.
  ```
  nimble build
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Windows install instructions (click to expand)</summary>
  
  # Installing Nim and its package manager (Windows)
  Download choosenim zip file [here](https://github.com/dom96/choosenim/releases), extract it and open runme.bat to install Nim.

  # Installing Git for Windows
  If you don't have a git environment installed, download and install [Git for Windows](https://gitforwindows.org/).

  # Downloading the project
  Run this command to prepare the Nim environment and download the project:
  ```
  choosenim devel && nimble refresh && git clone https://github.com/Cloudperry/the-witness-puzzle-maker && cd /d the-witness-puzzle-maker
  ```
  If you executed runme.bat in a terminal, you might need to restart the terminal for the command above to work.
</details>

# Compiling the project (do this after installing the project and dependencies)
Run this command in the project directory to compile the game. First compile might take about 5 min, because it has to download some libraries and generate bindings for one of the libraries.
```
nimble build -d:danger
```
If the program crashes and you want to debug it, do a debug build by running `nimble build` and then reproduce the crash with it. The level solution algorithm benefits massively from disabling runtime safety checks by
-d:danger, and that is why I recommend building using it.

# Generating levels
Specific levels can be generated by running `nimble genlevel <level name>` where level name is the source code file you want to generate levels from. If you want to try making a level, look at how levels are generated in
programs inside the levels directory. There are many inputs that are not validated by the level editing functions, so look at comments in src/levels.nim if you see weird behaviors in newly created levels. All levels in
levels directory can be regenerated by running `nimble regenlevels`. Unfortunately this command uses Posix specific shell commands, so it only works on Linux and Mac OS.

# Running the program and selecting a level
The game executable is witness-clone. You can pass the level file as the first argument to open a level or start the program without arguments and use the level select screen. Sample levels can be found in the levels
directory. The program also accepts a starting line as a command line argument. That can be used to check out correct or incorrect solutions listed in tests/tlevelsolutions.nim for each level. For example the following
command shows the first correct line in-game from hex-tutorial1 test:
```
./witness-clone -s="(0.0, 2.0) -> (0.0, 1.0) -> (0.0, 0.0) -> (1.0, 0.0) -> (1.0, 1.0) -> (1.0, 2.0) -> (2.0, 2.0) -> (2.0, 1.0) -> (2.0, 0.0) -> (2.0, -0.25)" levels/hex-tutorial1.bin
```

# Playing the game
The goal of the game is to draw a non-overlapping line from one of the big circles to a rounded dead end in the maze. Start drawing the line by typing a number corresponding to one of the listed points. After that the line
can be drawn by using the arrow keys. If there is a diagonal direction it has to be selected by typing a number once again. The line needs to satisfy logic rules defined by some symbols in the maze. There are examples in
the project definition document about these rules. The rules added by the symbols are also linked to in the [project definition document](project_definition.md).

# Generating test coverage and other project actions (defined in theWitnessPuzzles.nimble)
Run tests:
```
nimble test
```

Run performance test:
```
nimble perftest
```

Generate test coverage in docs/coverage/ (Linux only, requires Lcov):
```
nimble gencoverage
```

Generate source code documentation in docs/generated/:
```
nimble gendocs
```
